feat: New documentation section SXQ-42 (#1661)
codacy/docs: docs/organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md

# Managing security and risk

!!! info "This is a beta feature"
    This is a new Codacy feature and <span class="skip-vale">we're</span> continuing to improve it.

> To <span class="skip-vale">quickly</span> identify, prioritize, track, and address security vulnerabilities, open the **Security and risk management** page from the organization-level navigation menu. On this page, you can monitor and act on time-bound, prioritized action items that Codacy creates automatically when finding Security issues:

Reviewer: Yes, I'd also do it the other way around: start by explaining what "managing security and risk" is about and what customers can benefit from it. Next - if they're still interested :wink: - we let them know how to access the feature.

-   Codacy opens a new item when it finds a new Security issue on the default branch of a repository.

    [Every new item is assigned a priority](#item-priorities-and-deadlines) based on the severity of the underlying issue. Each priority also defines a deadline to fix the underlying issue.

    [Every new item is assigned a status](#item-statuses) based on the number of days left before the deadline to fix the underlying issue. As deadlines are approached, met, or missed, items transition through different statuses.

-   Codacy closes an item when it stops detecting the underlying issue, when [the underlying issue is ignored](../repositories/issues.md#ignoring-and-managing-issues), or when the [tool that found the underlying issue is disabled](../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md).

> For example, Codacy automatically opens an item with Critical priority upon finding a new Security issue of Critical severity on the default branch of a repository. If the Security issue is fixed before the deadline, the status of the item changes to Closed on time. If the issue isn't fixed before the deadline, the status of the item changes to Overdue.

Reviewer 2: All these details about Codacy automation could be explained later on this page. I feel that we should describe the Dashboard areas first, and these details only after (incremental information disclosure).

Reviewer: Perhaps the details about how Codacy maps the items to a priority and status can be explained only inside their corresponding sections, thus making this part more lightweight and easier to understand on a first read.

Anyway, this is bound to keep evolving so we'll need to perform some refactoring later on either way.

Author: Yes, I'll keep it simple and just move this to the "Opening and closing items" section for now.

> <!-- TODO reword -->

Reviewer 2: Definitely a TODO here! 👍 
Probably the Items list will require a new page, but we need to understand how the UI will navigate from the Dashboard to the list, and what will be the use case.

Author: I'd keep this on a single page for now. The feature may [spin off into a separate product](https://codacy.slite.com/app/docs/bRGd2kKUijL5BX#457ffc51) and will likely evolve to have its own section.

Reviewer: Yes, let's keep this self-contained for now. :ok_hand:

Security and Risk Management includes two pages:

-   [Dashboard](#dashboard)
-   [Item list](#item-list)

## Dashboard

To access the dashboard, open your organization **Security and Risk management** page. The dashboard provides a general overview of your security items and includes five panes:

-   **Total**: all open items
-   **Due soon**: open items within 15 days of their deadline
-   **Overdue**: open items with a missed deadline
-   **Closed on time**: items closed before the deadline
-   **Closed late**: items closed after the deadline

Each of these panes displays a count of matching items and a **Review** button to access the list of matching items.

![Security and risk management dashboard](images/placeholder.png)

## Item list

The item list page contains a filtered view of items, with overdue items shown first, followed by items closest to the deadline.

> To find out more about an item, click its Details column. This redirects you to a filtered view of the Repository issues page, showing only the item of interest.<!-- TODO confirm this is part of the MVP -->

Reviewer: Style suggestion to better identify the UI elements that are referenced:

```suggestion
To find out more about an item, click its **Details** column. This redirects you to a filtered view of the **Repository issues** page, showing only the item of interest.<!-- TODO confirm this is part of the MVP -->
```

![Security and risk management item list](images/placeholder.png)

## Opening and closing items

> To automatically open and close items, Codacy must start and stop detecting the underlying Security issues. To make sure that these Security issues are detected correctly:

Reviewer: Some suggestions to simplify the sentence and avoid the passive voice. It seems a bit weird to say "start and stop detecting issues" - at first I thought that this had to do with the Codacy analysis being toggled on or off, but in fact it's about Codacy detecting when issues first appear and when they're solved.

```suggestion
To automatically open and close items, Codacy must detect when the underlying Security issues are introduced and fixed. To make sure that Codacy detects the Security issues correctly:
```

Author: Good points 👍

-   [Every new item is assigned a priority](#item-priorities-and-deadlines) based on the severity of the underlying issue. Each priority also defines a deadline to fix the underlying issue.

-   [Every new item is assigned a status](#item-statuses) based on the number of days left before the deadline to fix the underlying issue. As deadlines are approached, met, or missed, items transition through different statuses.

Codacy automatically closes an item when it stops detecting the underlying issue, when [the underlying issue is ignored](../repositories/issues.md#ignoring-and-managing-issues), or when the [tool that found the underlying issue is disabled](../repositories-configure/configuring-code-patterns.md).

For example, Codacy automatically opens an item with Critical priority upon detecting a new Security issue of Critical severity on the default branch of a repository. If the Security issue is fixed before the deadline, the status of the item changes to Closed on time. If the issue isn't fixed before the deadline, the status of the item changes to Overdue.

!!! important

>     To automatically open and close items, Codacy must detect when the underlying Security issues are introduced and fixed. To make sure that Codacy detects the Security issues correctly:

Reviewer 3: do you know if this excludes "possible" fixed issues?

Author: @mrfyda Can you clarify? We mention [earlier](https://github.com/codacy/docs/blob/45e1fe2f0713e21035b56175e1047528c8e2ff7a/docs/organizations/managing-security-and-risk.md?plain=1#L49) that items are closed also if the issue is ignored or if the tool is disabled. Is this related?

Reviewer: I think that @mrfyda is talking about "[possible issues](https://docs.codacy.com/repositories/pull-requests/#possible-issues)" - basically, issues introduced or fixed in lines that aren't directly changed by a commit or pull request.

Reviewer 3: exactly! thanks for clarifying

the scenario where I see a potential problem is:

1. Codacy identifies a new security issue
2. the issue is reported in the dashboard
3. in a subsequent commit, Codacy considers the issue fixed (but as a "possible" fixed issue)
4. the issue continues to be reported in the dashboard endlessly

Author: Thanks @prcr!

@machadoit or @lventura-codacy any caveats on possible issues?

Reviewer 4: Hey, so the main ideia is that we don't rely on any new / fixed / possible new / possible fix that you see on the UI. We rely on 'snapshots' of issues at a given time of a repo. 

We went for a more robust solution to avoid the problems that you mention, and also if people just add / remove tools that make issues appear outside of diffs of analysed commits.

Let me know if this is enough to clarify the question, but we are not expecting any problems with the scenario that you mentioned

            <td rowspan="3">Open</td>
            <td>Overdue</td>
            <td>The deadline has been missed</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Due soon</td>
            <td>Fewer than 15 days to the deadline</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>On track</td>
            <td>15 days or more to the deadline</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan="2">Closed</td>
            <td>Closed late</td>
            <td>Closed after the deadline</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Closed on time</td>
            <td>Closed before the deadline</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## Item priorities and deadlines

The following table defines item priorities and days to fix the underlying Codacy security issue, based on the severity of the issue:

| Security issue severity | Item priority | Days to close |
|-------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Critical                | Critical      | 30            |
| Medium                  | Medium        | 90            |
| Minor                   | Low           | 120           |

## Data retention

Codacy retains open items indefinitely and closed items for one year.

> Deleting a repository deletes all the items belonging to that repository.

Author: ```suggestion
Deleting a repository deletes all open items belonging to that repository.
```

# Managing security and risk

<!-- TODO remove this admonition before publishing. This is caused by https://codacy.atlassian.net/browse/HRZ-151 -->
!!! important "This is a preview version of the Codacy documentation"

>     For the latest updates and improvements, [see the latest Cloud documentation](https://docs.codacy.com/) instead.

Reviewer: I already the idea of adding an automatic banner for the pull request previews for some time now, but when I saw this change I decided to spend some minutes implementing it:

- https://github.com/codacy/docs/pull/1721
- https://github.com/codacy/codacy-mkdocs-material/pull/82

!!! info "This is a beta feature"
    This is a new Codacy feature and <span class="skip-vale">we're</span> continuing to improve it.

The **Security and Risk Management** feature helps you <span class="skip-vale">quickly</span> identify, track, and address security vulnerabilities by automatically opening time-bound, prioritized action items whenever Codacy detects Security issues in your organization repositories.

Under Security and Risk Management, you have the following pages to help you monitor your repositories:

-   [Dashboard](#dashboard)
-   [Item list](#item-list)

## Dashboard

The Security and Risk Management dashboard provides a general overview of security items, based on their status.

> To access the dashboard, select an organization from the top navigation bar and select **Security and risk** on the left navigation sidebar.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To access the dashboard, select an organization from the top navigation bar and select **Security and Risk** on the left navigation sidebar.
```
Capital 'R'?
